well Israel says it's preparing a
fullscale Land Air and sea invasion of
Gaza the next stage of its military
offensive against Hamas it's unclear
though when that will happen Israel has
killed at least
2,329 Palestinians in its bombing
campaign on Gaza since last Saturday 724
of them were children and the death toll
keeps Rising 1,300 Israelis have been
killed in hamas's military operation
including some 286 Soldiers the combined
death toll makes this conflict the
deadliest on both sides of all five Gaza
conflicts meanwhile hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians are making
their way South a dangerous journey
through a war zone Israel has ordered
more than 1.1 million Palestinians to
leave their destroyed neighborhoods in
the north water and electricity have now
run out for 2.3 million people after
Israel imposed its total Siege Aid
workers say host hospitals will run out
of fuel within 2 days with devastating
consequences for thousands of patients
Hospitals and Clinics are overwhelmed
the health Ministry says 70% of the
population in Northern Gaza has no
access to medical treatment since the UN
Palestinian refugee agency evacuated its
centers this video shows a paramedic
responding to an attack in southern Gaza
that's where Israel had ordered
Palestinians to flee for their own
safety Israel denied is targeting the
area well let's get the latest now on
the situation inside Gaza Jamila Abu
Zuna joins us now on the phone from Kan
yunes in the southern Gaza Strip Jamila
I understand you live in Gaza City but
you've had to flee with your own family
and with so many others I'm glad that
you're safe I understand you're now in a
shelter in the South can you talk us
through what conditions are
like yes uh today is the third day uh of
staying at a un shelter in the south of
Gaza and Junes uh where now about 20,000
people are staying here and even more
are coming are still coming
um it's really it's after we have been
forced to flee and evacuate our our
houses our homes in Gaza and we went
South not knowing what's going to happen
later but as you said earlier uh it's
happening they're launching a land
attack is the next phase it's another
1948 uh uh diaspora so it's happening
again the world is seeing this but still
nothing is changing J my situation Sor I
was just wanting to ask you said 20,000
people are Sheltering there with you Ian
that's a huge number can you talk us
through what what you're seeing there
around
you uh it's it's devastating to to try
to describe actually um we've been
sleeping on the floor literally uh we
have no access to clean water no
electricity um even no clean bathroom
for instance uh even food is is very
limited all the supplies are limited uh
all and we have to mention that most of
the people here of the people are uh
infants children and elderly people who
need urgent assistance medical
assistance Jam we've also been hearing
that there have been strikes on people
as they've been fleeing the northern
part of the Gaza Strip what do you know
about
that it's true uh yesterday one of the
families who evacuated uh who came to
the shelter we in they're saying that uh
they evacuated the last minute and the
other people who were fleeing uh after
them were were completely um
bombarded while they were on the way so
it's not safe they say they're making SE
ceas Fires for people to to um to give
people chance to flee their home to the
South but still there is no
safety Jam Abu Zuna there Jamila please
do stay safe with your family thank you
for sharing that report with us we'll be
staying in touch with you in the coming
hours thank you
jamala well Hamas is continuing to fire
Rockets from Gaza into Southern Israel
warning sirens have sounded across
Israel with people in the coastal city
of Tel Aviv and the surrounding towns
they're taking shelter well let's now go
to Al's Charles Stratford he's in sedot
in southern Israel Charles there has
been more movement by the Israeli
military overnight what's been
happening well just to bring you up to
date where we are here in stot um I
suppose the last half an hour or so it
literally just stopped but some very
heavy and sustained gunfire that we can
hear we estimate probably around about a
kilometer from here behind us towards
the Gaza border the Gaza border is
around 3 km nothing being said about
this yet by the Israeli military but
what we do know is that in recent days
or since that initial attack on October
the 7th the Israeli Army has been
struggling to deal with repeated
infiltration attempts by Palestinian
fighters from Gaza that kind of
firefight would suggest possibly well we
can't confirm another infiltration
attempt meanwhile we've heard a lot of
outgoing uh we understand Heavy
Artillery pounding areas of Gaza um from
areas surrounding us here um and yes as
you say there have been Rockets fired by
that's another we understand outgoing um
there have been Rockets fired overnight
various different places and this
morning um we heard Rockets being
intercepted last night very loudly in
Ash DOD as you you mentioned Tel Aviv
also ashalon so yeah the situation
remains obviously as you can imagine
very unstable here but um it's small
arms and heavy gun heavy machine gun
fire like that so close to the border
that as I say would suggest possible new
infiltration attempts but we'll be able
to confirm that later Charles we're
hearing also about evacuations taking
place around where you are what more can
you tell us and also about the military
buildup that we've been seeing towards
the Border
that's right the town of stot the mayor
here is repeatedly called for an
evacuation I think for all intents and
purpose he might actually get what he
wants today um around 25 to 30% of the
population of stot are still here that's
around 7,000 people I mean the streets
are are pretty empty those 7,000 if
indeed those statistics that we're
understanding have been supplied To Us
by the local authorities are true then
as you can imagine most people are
staying in their homes there are buses
apparently being laid on collection
points in this town we haven't seen any
of those buses yet but we have spoken to
people here um the few civilians that
we've seen on the streets and some of
them are saying some of them are looking
for these buses and saying now is the
time to get out and others are refusing
to go we literally a few seconds a few
minutes ago spoke to a man who passed us
on his bicycle and said that um he uh he
didn't want to go but he would possibly
be forced to leave not by the military
but because there was not much food left
all the shops as you can imagine are
closed it's a similar scenario in
various towns um close to the Border as
well an attempt by the military to
evacuate the remaining civilians from
these areas and meanwhile the military
buildup continues um hundreds possibly
thousands of Tanks APC heavy military
equipment that is now moving into
positions we understand possibly forward
or more forward operational positions um
some of the areas that we've seen
equipment gathering in the last few days
is now empty um and they have gone we
understand into a closed military zone
so all indications are that yes after
last night's Announcement by the
military that it was planning such a big
offensive into Gaza it wouldn't be in
conceivable if that offensive could
start in the hours certainly the days
ahead Charles there with the latest
Forest on the ground and sederot in
southern Israel thank you Charles